examples/typescript/README.md, before:

# X402 TypeScript Examples

This directory contains a collection of TypeScript examples demonstrating how to use the X402 protocol in various contexts. These examples are designed to work with the X402 npm packages and share a workspace with the main X402 packages.

## Setup

Before running any examples, you need to install dependencies and build the packages:

```bash
# From the examples/typescript directory
pnpm install
pnpm build
```

## Example Structure

The examples are organized into several categories:

### Clients

Examples of different client implementations for interacting with X402 services:

- `clients/axios/` - Axios client with x402 payment interceptor from `x402-axios`.
- `clients/fetch/` - Client using the `x402-fetch` wrapper around the native fetch API.
- `clients/cdp-sdk/` - Client that uses CDP Server Wallets as the signer with `x402-axios`.
- `clients/chainlink-vrf-nft/` - Example using [Chainlink](docs.chain.link) to mint a randomized NFT (see them on [Opensea](https://testnets.opensea.io/collection/vrfnft-1)). Demonstrates verify/settle flow with `x402-axios`.

### Agents

- `agent/` - Anthropic agent that pays via a Go proxy using `x402-fetch`.
- `dynamic_agent/` - Agent that discovers tools dynamically and pays per-request using x402.

### Discovery

- `discovery/` - Uses the facilitator to list available x402-protected resources (Bazaar).

### MCP

- `mcp/` - MCP server that makes paid API requests via `x402-axios` (Claude Desktop compatible).
- `mcp-embedded-wallet/` - Electron-based MCP server with an embedded wallet that signs requests via IPC.

### Facilitator

- `facilitator/` - Example implementation of an x402 payment facilitator exposing `/verify` and `/settle`.

### Fullstack

- `fullstack/next/` - Next.js app demonstrating route protection with `x402-next` middleware.
- `fullstack/mainnet/` - Next.js app configured for Base mainnet using the Coinbase hosted facilitator.
- `fullstack/next-advanced/` - [WIP] Deep Next.js integration using a paywall + session cookie after verify/settle.
- `fullstack/browser-wallet-example/` - Browser wallet template: Hono server + React client with session and one-time payments.
- `fullstack/farcaster-miniapp/` - Farcaster Mini App template with x402-protected APIs using [MiniKit](https://www.base.org/build/mini-apps).
- `fullstack/auth_based_pricing/` - SIWE + JWT with conditional pricing ($0.01 with JWT vs $0.10 without) using x402.

### Servers

Examples of different server implementations:

- `servers/express/` - Express.js server using `x402-express` middleware.
- `servers/hono/` - Hono server using `x402-hono` middleware.
- `servers/advanced/` - Express server without middleware: delayed settlement, dynamic pricing, multiple requirements.
- `servers/mainnet/` - Server example for accepting real USDC on Base mainnet using the Coinbase hosted facilitator.

## Running Examples

Each example directory contains its own README with specific instructions for running that example. Navigate to the desired example directory and follow its instructions.

## Development

This workspace uses:

- pnpm for package management
- Turborepo for monorepo management
- TypeScript for type safety

The examples are designed to work with the main X402 packages, so they must be built before running any examples.

## A note on private keys

The examples in this folder commonly use private keys to sign messages. **Never put a private key with mainnet funds in a `.env` file**. This can result in keys getting checked into codebases and being drained.

There are many ways to generate a keypair to use exclusively for development, one way is via foundry:

```
# install foundry
curl -L https://foundry.paradigm.xyz | bash

# generate a new wallet
cast w new
```

You can fund your new wallet on most networks via the testnet [CDP Faucet](https://portal.cdp.coinbase.com/products/faucet), simply provide the address generated by cast.

Commit message:

Add odp-deferred example implementation

examples/typescript/README.md, after:

# X402 TypeScript Examples

This directory contains a collection of TypeScript examples demonstrating how to use the X402 protocol in various contexts. These examples are designed to work with the X402 npm packages and share a workspace with the main X402 packages.

## Setup

Before running any examples, you need to install dependencies and build the packages:

```bash
# From the examples/typescript directory
pnpm install
pnpm build
```

## Example Structure

The examples are organized into several categories:

### Clients

Examples of different client implementations for interacting with X402 services:

- `clients/axios/` - Axios client with x402 payment interceptor from `x402-axios`.
- `clients/fetch/` - Client using the `x402-fetch` wrapper around the native fetch API.
- `clients/cdp-sdk/` - Client that uses CDP Server Wallets as the signer with `x402-axios`.
- `clients/chainlink-vrf-nft/` - Example using [Chainlink](docs.chain.link) to mint a randomized NFT (see them on [Opensea](https://testnets.opensea.io/collection/vrfnft-1)). Demonstrates verify/settle flow with `x402-axios`.

### Agents

- `agent/` - Anthropic agent that pays via a Go proxy using `x402-fetch`.
- `dynamic_agent/` - Agent that discovers tools dynamically and pays per-request using x402.

### Discovery

- `discovery/` - Uses the facilitator to list available x402-protected resources (Bazaar).

### MCP

- `mcp/` - MCP server that makes paid API requests via `x402-axios` (Claude Desktop compatible).
- `mcp-embedded-wallet/` - Electron-based MCP server with an embedded wallet that signs requests via IPC.

### Facilitator

- `facilitator/` - Example implementation of an x402 payment facilitator exposing `/verify` and `/settle`.
- `odp-deferred/` - End-to-end example of the `odp-deferred` scheme with deferred settlement.

### Fullstack

- `fullstack/next/` - Next.js app demonstrating route protection with `x402-next` middleware.
- `fullstack/mainnet/` - Next.js app configured for Base mainnet using the Coinbase hosted facilitator.
- `fullstack/next-advanced/` - [WIP] Deep Next.js integration using a paywall + session cookie after verify/settle.
- `fullstack/browser-wallet-example/` - Browser wallet template: Hono server + React client with session and one-time payments.
- `fullstack/farcaster-miniapp/` - Farcaster Mini App template with x402-protected APIs using [MiniKit](https://www.base.org/build/mini-apps).
- `fullstack/auth_based_pricing/` - SIWE + JWT with conditional pricing ($0.01 with JWT vs $0.10 without) using x402.

### Servers

Examples of different server implementations:

- `servers/express/` - Express.js server using `x402-express` middleware.
- `servers/hono/` - Hono server using `x402-hono` middleware.
- `servers/advanced/` - Express server without middleware: delayed settlement, dynamic pricing, multiple requirements.
- `servers/mainnet/` - Server example for accepting real USDC on Base mainnet using the Coinbase hosted facilitator.

## Running Examples

Each example directory contains its own README with specific instructions for running that example. Navigate to the desired example directory and follow its instructions.

## Development

This workspace uses:

- pnpm for package management
- Turborepo for monorepo management
- TypeScript for type safety

The examples are designed to work with the main X402 packages, so they must be built before running any examples.

## A note on private keys

The examples in this folder commonly use private keys to sign messages. **Never put a private key with mainnet funds in a `.env` file**. This can result in keys getting checked into codebases and being drained.

There are many ways to generate a keypair to use exclusively for development, one way is via foundry:

```
# install foundry
curl -L https://foundry.paradigm.xyz | bash

# generate a new wallet
cast w new
```

You can fund your new wallet on most networks via the testnet [CDP Faucet](https://portal.cdp.coinbase.com/products/faucet), simply provide the address generated by cast.
